# Ponix

## Mental Health Info of the Week - Signs of Gaslighting
1.) They tell blatant lies.
2.) They deny they ever said something, even though you have proof.
3.) They use what is near and dear to you as ammunition.
4.) They wear you down over time.
5.) Their actions do not match their words.
6.) They throw in positive reinforcement to confuse you.
7.) They know confusion weakens people.
8.) They project.
9.) They try to align people against you.
10.) They tell you or others that you are crazy.
11.) They tell you everyone else is a liar.

Self-signs:
12.) Avoiding giving information to friends or family members to avoid confrontation.
13.) Finding it hard to make decisions.
14.) Being more anxious and less confident than you used to be.
15.) Often wondering if you're being too sensitive.
16.) Always thinking it's your fault when things go wrong.
17.) Apologizing often.
18.) Often questioning whether your response was appropriate.

Examples:
19.) Trivializing how you feel.
20.) Telling you that people are talking behind your back.
21.) Saying thigns to you that they later deny having said.
22.) Hiding objects from you, and then denying knowing anything about it.
23.) Insisting you were or were not at a certain place, even though it's not true.

=> https://github.com/pitr/gig Gig Gemini Framework
=> ./poetry.gpub My Poetry Gempub

## Menu
=> /searchengine/ Search Engine (WIP)
=> /weather/ Weather
=> /starwars2/ Star Wars Database
=> /ponics/ Ponics Multics Server
=> /music/ Music Service (WIP)

=> /youtube YouTube Proxy (WIP)
=> /odin Odin Mirror
=> /github Github Proxy (WIP)

=> /usefulrepos.gmi Useful Repos
=> /GeminiHistoryMustReads.gmi Gemini History Must-Reads
=> /proxies.gmi Proxies and Mirrors List
=> /capsules.gmi Capsules List

=> /devlog Devlog
=> /~krixano/ My Gemlog
=> /~krixano/contact.gmi Contact Info
=> /feed.gmi Comitium Feed

## Leo Orbit
=> gemini://tilde.team/~khuxkm/leo/ Leo Orbit
=> gemini://tilde.team/~khuxkm/leo/next.cgi?gemini%3A%2F%2Fpon.ix.tc%2F Next Page
=> gemini://tilde.team/~khuxkm/leo/prev.cgi?gemini%3A%2F%2Fpon.ix.tc%2F Last Page
=> gemini://tilde.team/~khuxkm/leo/rand.cgi Random Page
