# Canon Star Wars Books List
Note: None of the movie novelizations for Episodes I-VI are listed, as whether they are considered canon or not is frequently debated. The novelizations for Episodes IV-VI often contradict both the movies and each other. It has been announced by Del Rey, however, that the novelizations are canon where they agree with the movies, but this statement is fairly ambiguous.

* Ezra's Gamble (Aug. 2014)
* A New Dawn (Sep. 2014)
* Servants of the Empire: Edge of the Galaxy (Oct. 2014)
* Tarkin (Nov. 2014)

* Heir to the Jedi (Mar. 2015)
* Servants of the Empire: Rebel in the Ranks (Mar. 2015)
* Lords of the Sith (Apr. 2015)
* Dark Disciple (Jul. 2015)
* Servants of the Empire: Imperial Justice (Jul. 2015)
* The Weapon of a Jedi (Sep. 2015)
* Smuggler's Run (Sep. 2015)
* Moving Target (Sep. 2015)
* Lost Stars (Sep. 2015)
* Aftermath (Sep. 2015)
* Servants of the Empire: The Secret Academy (Oct. 2015)
* Battlefront: Twilight Company (Nov. 2015)
* Before the Awakening (Dec. 2015)

* The Force Awakens (Novelization) (Jan. 2016)
* Bloodline (May. 2016)
* Aftermath: Life Debt (Jul. 2016)
* Ahsoka (Oct. 2016)
* Catalyst (Nov. 2016)
* Adventures in Wild Space: The Escape (Dec. 2016)
* Rogue One (Novelization) (Dec. 2016)

* Adventures in Wild Space: The Nest (Jan. 2017)
* Adventures in Wild Space: The Snare (Jan. 2017)
* Join the Resistance (Mar. 2017)
* Adventures in Wild Space: The Steal (Apr. 2017)
* Thrawn (Apr. 2017)
* Rebel Rising (May. 2017)
* Guardians of the Whills (May. 2017)
* Aftermath: Empire's End (Jun. 2017)
* Battlefront II: Inferno Squad (Jul. 2017)
* Adventures in Wild Space: The Dark (Aug. 2017)
* Phasma (Sep. 2017)
* Leia: Princess of Alderaan (Sep. 2017)
* Join the Resistance: Escape from Vodran (Oct. 2017)
* The Legends of Luke Skywalker (Oct. 2017)
* Adventures in Wild Space: The Cold (Oct. 2017)
* Cobalt Squadron (Dec. 2017)

* The Last Jedi (Novelization) (Mar. 2018)
* Adventures in Wild Space: The Rescue (Apr. 2018)
* Last Shot (Apr. 2018)
* Choose Your Destiny: A Han & Chewie Adventure (Apr. 2018)
* Most Wanted (May. 2018)
* The Mighty Chewbacca in the Forest of Fear! (May. 2018)
* Thrawn: Alliances (Jun. 2018)
* Join the Resistance: Attack on Starkiller Base (Jul. 2018)
* Solo (Novelization) (Sep. 2018)
* Choose Your Destiny: A Luke and Leia Adventure (Oct. 2018)
* Lando's Luck (Oct. 2018)

* Pirate's Price (Jan. 2019)
* Queen's Shadow (Mar. 2019)
* Choose Your Destiny: An Obi-wan and Anakin Adventure (Mar. 2019)
* Master & Apprentice (Apr. 2019)
* Dooku: Jedi Lost (Apr. 2019)
* Alphabet Squadron (Jun. 2019)
* Thrawn: Treason (Jul. 2019)
* Galaxy's Edge: A Crash of Fate (Aug. 2019)
* Galaxy's Edge: Black Spire (Aug. 2019)
* Choose Your Destiny: A Finn & Poe Adventure (Oct. 2019)
* Spark of the Resistance (Oct. 2019)
* Resistance Reborn (Nov. 2019)
* Force Collector (Nov. 2019)

* The Rise of Skywalker (Novelization) (Mar. 2020)
* Queen's Peril (Jun. 2020)
* Shadow Fall (Jun. 2020)
* Doctor Aphra (Jul. 2020)
* Poe Dameron: Free Fall (Aug. 2020)
* Thrawn Ascendancy: Chaos Rising (Sep. 2020)

* The High Republic: The Great Jedi Rescue (Jan. 2021)
* The High Republic: Light of the Jedi (Jan. 2021)
* The High Republic: Into the Dark (Feb. 2021)
* Victory's Price (Mar. 2021)
* Thrawn Ascendancy: Greater Good (Apr. 2021)
* The High Republic: The Rising Storm (Jun. 2021)
* The High Republic: Race to Crashpoint Tower (Jun. 2021)

## Upcoming
* The High Republic: Out of the Shadows (Jul. 2021)
* The High Republic: Tempest Runner (Aug. 2021)
* The High Republic: Shadow at the Fair (Oct. 2021)
* Queen's Hope (Nov. 2021)
* Thrawn Ascendancy: Lesser Evil (Nov. 2021)

