=> gemini://pon.ix.tc/odin Home
=> gemini://pon.ix.tc/odin/docs Documentation
=> gemini://pon.ix.tc/odin/help.gmi Community
=> gemini://pon.ix.tc/odin/downloads Download
=> https://github.com/odin-lang/Odin Github

# Documentation

## Installing Odin

### Getting Started[1]

Instructions for downloading and installing the Odin compiler and libraries.

=> gemini://pon.ix.tc/odin/docs/install.gmi 1: /docs/install.gmi

## Learning Odin

### Overview of Odin[2]

An overview of the Odin programming language.

=> gemini://pon.ix.tc/odin/docs/overview.gmi 2: /docs/overview.gmi

### Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)[3]

Answers to common questions about Odin.

=> gemini://pon.ix.tc/odin/docs/faq.gmi 3: /docs/faq.gmi

### Demonstration Code Example[4]

A demonstration of the language in Odin code.

=> gemini://pon.ix.tc/odin/docs/code-example.gmi 4: /docs/code-example.gmi

### The Odin Wiki[5]

A wiki maintained by the Odin community.

=> https://github.com/odin-lang/Odin/wiki 5: https://github.com/odin-lang/Odin/wiki

## References

### Language Specification[6]

The official Odin Language specification.

=> gemini://pon.ix.tc/odin/ref/spec.gmi 6: /ref/spec.gmi

## Articles

### The Odin Blog[7]

The official blog of the Odin programming language, featuring announcements, news, and in-depth articles by the Odin team and guests.

=> gemini://pon.ix.tc/odin/blog 7: /blog

## Talks

The original video demonstrations of the process of creation of Odin.

* First Talk & Demo * Talk[8] * Demo[9] * Q&A[10]
* Composition & Refactorability[11]
* Introspection, Modules, and Record Layout[12]
* push_allocator & Minimal Dependency Building[13]
* when, for & procedure overloading[14]
* Context Types, Unexported Entities, Labelled Branches[15]
* Bit Fields, i128 & u128, Syntax Changes[16]
* Default and Named Arguments; Explicit Parametric Polymorphism[17]
* Loadsachanges[18]
* Packages, Bit Sets, cstring[19] * Q&A[20]
